In the context of security, you have a subject, which is an entity.
It can be a user like Victoria, a machine, another service, or a piece of code.
In OAuth, the subject is the resource owner,
hence why in OpenID Connect,
the identity token has the subject property that
uniquely identifies the resource owner.
A resource owner might have the following attributes,
username, email, social security number,
name, address.
Each of these or a combination could uniquely
identify the user and our principals.
Principals are subsets of a subject's attributes,
and a subject can have many different types of principals.
So for our subject, which is the resource owner,
we can now access their principal via the getPrincipal method,
which is the identity claim they approved for the client
to retrieve from the identity server.
If we now put a breakpoint and sign in with Google,
you can see the authentication object is of type OAuth2AuthenticationToken.
It's authenticated.
It's for Google.
The principal is the default OpenID Connect user as
Google is an OpenID Connect provider.
And you have access to the attributes you would
expect returned via OpenID Connect.
There is one authority.
By default, Spring will add the user role for authenticated principals.
We will discuss how to customize authorities later.
NameAttributeKey,
which gives the name of the claim used for the
username as expected for OpenID Connect,
it's the subject.
And you can also access the ID token.
If we do the same for Facebook,
the principal is of type DefaultOauth2User as Facebook
is not an OpenID Connect provider.
NameAttributeKey is id, which is Facebook's unique identifier for a user.
And we have a few attributes, email and name.
As expected, there is no ID token as Facebook is not an OpenID Connect provider.
Now the attributes you get back will vary between each
provider and will depend on a number of factors.
For Facebook, the user's public profile is configurable.
They can decide what they want to expose.
Hence, you get a subset of the following back.
In my case, I only allow my name to be viewed.
By default, Spring also requests the email scope.
Facebook Connect also offers other scopes, say you wanted the user's location.
Now in our configuration file, we can override the scope property for Facebook,
add public_profile, email user_location.
Facebook will now automatically detect the new scope and
ask the resource owner for consent.
You can see a warning here that some of the permissions below
have not been approved for use by Facebook.
So even if the user was to consent,
Facebook will still not return their location as the client
application is not approved by Facebook to handle anything
other than public profile and email.
We would need to request permission from Facebook to handle this type
of user info and go through an approval process.
That's understandable.
Due to the recent scrutiny,
social media providers are being a lot more restrictive now as you
can imagine with all the recent public spotlight.
The token would be of type OAuth2AuthenticationToken.
To register a new user, we need the firstname,
lastname, and email and a unique identifier.
We can use the getAuthorizedClientRegistrationId to determine
which provider the user is signing in with.
If it is Facebook, we retrieve the email and name,
which can be split to get a first and last name.
For Google, since it's an OpenID Connect provider,
the standards in OpenID Connect make this a lot simpler.
We can check if it is an OpenID Connect provider by checking
the type of the principal is DefaultOidcUser.
Then we can use the standard OpenID Connect names for email,
given_name, and family_name.
We can then register the new user and create them a portfolio.
Now the cool thing about the default OpenID Connect user object is
that it provides the standard claims as accesses,
which is quite neat.
You can now log in with Facebook and Google.
You can see the application displays the logged in the
username in the top-right corner.
With OAuth providers, this can generally be anything.
For Facebook and Google, it's a long, unique identification number.
So you might want to change that to display something more meaningful,
like the name of the user.
I'll show you how to do that later.
As mentioned previously,
Spring will add the default user role into the granted authorities. Next, we'll look at how to customize that and add some additional roles.